fix(vite-plugin): round-trip .dev.vars values containing quotes (#13802)
cloudflare/workers-sdk: .changeset/fix-vite-plugin-dev-vars-quoting.md

---
"@cloudflare/vite-plugin": patch
---

Fix `.dev.vars` written for `vite preview` to round-trip values containing quotes

> When the plugin emits `dist/<env>/.dev.vars` for `vite preview`, it previously wrote each value as a double-quoted dotenv string with `"` escaped to `\"`. `dotenv` (the parser wrangler uses) does not unescape `\"` inside double-quoted values — it only handles `\n` and `\r` — so values containing `"` (e.g. JSON-encoded values) arrived at the worker with literal backslashes still in them, and any subsequent `JSON.parse` blew up with `Expected property name or '}' in JSON at position 1 (line 1 column 2)`.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph can be a bit simplified. Also the part regarding `JSON.parse` feels unnecessary to me:
```suggestion
When the plugin emits `dist/<env>/.dev.vars` for `vite preview`, it previously wrote each value as a double-quoted dotenv string with `"` escaped to `\"`. `dotenv` (the parser wrangler uses) does not unescape `\"` inside double-quoted values, so values containing `"` arrived at the worker with literal backslashes still in them.
```

Author: agreed, updated

> The plugin now picks the first quote character that does not appear in the value (single → backtick → double), all of which dotenv strips correctly. If a value contains every supported quote character it throws instead of silently corrupting the value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The plugin now quotes strings using the first quote character that does not appear in the value (with the priority order: single → backtick → double), all of which dotenv strips correctly. If a value contains every supported quote character it throws instead of silently corrupting the value.
```
